#How Cyber Criminals Have Affected The Average Person

#####By Zach Schultz - May 24, 2021
Cybersecurity Insurance aims to reduce the amount of damage that is done to those that are victims of cyber incidents. These damages can include situations such as a business suffering a data breach, like the attack on FireEye in December of 2020, or damage to a network, caused by things such as heat or natural disasters.

###What Has Changed?
Due to recent cyberattacks on companies like FireEye and SolarWinds, insurance companies have started raising their premium rates. What does this mean for the people who want to protect their personal or professional information? Not only do they have to pay more to receive an insurance company’s protection, but the insurance company also expects the people receiving this insurance to do more themselves to protect their data. One of the changes that has been made recently to insurance policies is that there are new required self-protection protocols for one to qualify for cyber insurance premiums. Why is the customer now required to meet certain standards to receive coverage? According to the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), promoting the “adoption of preventative measures in return for more coverage” and “the implementation of best practices” is a practice that has the potential to limit the number of successful cyber attacks.

###What Can You Do?
There are a number of steps that you can take to both insure the safety of your information and qualify for an insurance company’s premiums. 

First, you should back up all your important information and files. If someone hacks your computer with ransomware and threatens to delete your files unless you pay them a certain amount of money, having a second copy of your important data allows you to keep your money and your files. Also, consider downloading a free antivirus software and scan for intrusions or corrupted files every once in a while.

Second, enable privacy and security settings on your apps and devices. This includes multi-factor authentication (MFA) and making your profiles private. Doing this, as well as only submitting the basic information that is required when making an account, will make it harder for hackers to guess your passwords and gain access to your accounts. TekMonks offers a product that should be used by anyone that wants to keep  information safe: LoginCat. LoginCat is an AI-based MFA software designed to combat AI attacks, offering “360° of protection.”

Finally, another option is using a VPN, or a virtual private network service. A VPN allows you to retain your privacy and anonymity, even on a public network. It hides your IP address and encrypts your connections, making it very hard for hackers to gain access to your device and your information.

The changes made to cybersecurity insurance policies may have put a few more things on your to-do list, but the extra layers of security can save both your important work documents and personal memories.
