#Securely Working From Home

#####By Abby Rose - April 16, 2020

Anne Frank once said, “No one has ever become poor by giving.” The reward from helping others may not always be monetary, but it is still of great value. 
It is predicted that the COVID-19 pandemic will cause an economic crisis not only in the United States but globally. There is already a massive spike in unemployment. Many companies are doing their part in helping the healthcare system and the economy in whatever way their product can. Some companies, such as Gap Inc., have started making masks, while others manufactures, such as Dyson and Airbus, are now mass producing ventilators. Restaurants, such as chipotle, are also contributing by supplying food to hospitals and free delivery for those respectfully staying at home. 

As a cybersecurity company, TekMonks started looking for their opportunity to help society as well. This inspired the creation of Teleworkr. They combined their best cybersecurity products to create a secure virtual workspace for companies working from home. It includes all of the needs of a workplace such as community, accountability, and multiaccess to documents. Teleworkr is constantly adding new features to ensure a productive environment. TekMonks also is setting aside their monetary ambitions by offering Teleworkr free for the first 90 days as well as open conversations on how to work with each company’s financial situations. TekMonk’s genuine goal is to help in this time of crisis, so please reach out if your company needs a better virtual working environment. 

##Fighting the Cyberthreat 
COVID-19 has created the perfect situation for phishing attack and cyber criminals have taken full advantage of the situation. Many of the phishing attacks are too subtle to notice without being aware and only acquire commonly used credentials. This is a major security risk for those who use the same login information for all of their accounts. The most effective way to combat this issue is by using different information for every site but realistically, no one actually does that because it takes too much effort. Another solution is using secure multi-factor authentication which can identify whether or not the user is actually real by asking pre-set personal questions, sending a text with a unique number, or an email verification. Teleworkr uses this feature to keep working environments access based only and secure.

Even if employees have their credentials compromised, the company virtual office will be secure.    
With the stay-at-home procedures, many companies are working remotely and accessing their company desktops remotely. There are many vulnerabilities that have been exploited during this transition. Without appropriate security measures, any hacker with the ability to penetrate remote access networks, can choses to target your company and gain access to sensitive documents. If there is a breach, and private information regarding your customers is stolen, then your customers will be at risk and your company will be responsible or making them aware of the breach. Teleworkr uses SmartFirewall with “Virtual Segmented Network” isolation, protecting your organization and remote workers in such a way that hackers can’t even find a network path to the remote machines. There are no ports open in the corporate firewall which means no risk. Teleworkr also uses reflection technology in order to keep it a closed connection. Make sure your company and their information is protected while continuing work at home.  

