#Passwords to Passphrases- The Step Toward a Secure Future
Published on August 8, 2019

Olivia Mandell
Account Manager

Think back to your very first experience making a username and password. Personally, mine was in elementary school for AOL. About fifteen years later, my vast array of accounts still share slight variations of the same sequence. How much has yours changed? As a standard security measure, account platforms attempt to stay one step ahead of hackers through the sustained norm of changing one’s password frequently for security optimization. However, much has changed since the emergence of AOL and internet consumer privacy protection.

Experts are now emphasizing the realization that password expiration is demonstrating more harm than help. Naturally, when consumers are forced to update passwords, they end up making small and predictable alterations, forgetting their passwords, or relying on memorized verification answers. There are a multitude of arguments as to why this is an outdated source of security, threatening everything between private consumer data to large agency finances and so on.

If no known threats are present, why change your password? As touched on earlier, users generally employ shortcuts when forced to update their login credentials. A vast majority of the time, this creates transformations and causes user authentication easier to predict. This pattern, along with the issue of recycling passwords across numerous accounts, is an insufficient means of security on a boundless scale.

With the new age of technology continuing on an immeasurable path of expansion, these predictable patterns are a huge commodity in the dark web. Just ask Equifax, who incurred a loss of 143 million dollars in consumer sensitive data in 2017 lasting for three months. Aside from this large-scale breach, common hacks to stay aware of include distributed denial-of-service attacks and SMiShing. According to a 2018 IBM security report, in the past six years 112 billion USD has been accrued through identity fraud. Common hacks target crucial information including social security numbers, addresses, driver’s license numbers, and credit card information. As internet reliability resumes to steadily increase, these hacker threats will follow suit.

To leave this risk in the past, the future of internet security must rely on updated authentication management systems. New strategies include biometrics, silent security, and Identity and Access Management (IAM) platforms. These modern tactics are evidently seen through processes such as Apple’s Touch ID and facial recognition software. As well, many higher educational institutions are instilling multi-factor authentication into their systems.

Most notably, the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) released a special publication in June of 2017 laying out technical requirement guidelines for federal agencies implementing digital identity services. This entails three levels of authenticator assurance, each strengthening in confidence regarding petitioner control over the authenticator of a subscriber’s account with the use of various authentication factors and secure protocols.

With any big change, these new defense methods come with pushback from consumers. As noted in the Opus research intelligent authentication 2016 conference, there is a careful paradox between security measures and user experience. Nonetheless, the conference noted how these adaptations in security increase a business’ competitiveness through customer loyalty, engagement, and value added. A leader in this latest safety measure includes TekMonks’ LoginCat, a multi-factor authentication product focusing on the concept of passphrases and user experience optimization with unparalleled protection.

As we will discuss in-depth in the second article of this four-part series, LoginCat addressed the NIST guidelines before the 2017 publication and has the capabilities of helping in breaches such as Capital One’s. Noted by TekMonks’ Vice President, Rohit Kapoor, "complicated passwords are hard for human brains to remember, yet, easy for modern computers to hack. Passphrases are really easy for human brains to remember, and really tough for computers to hack, because they are so long." 

In order to implement this security measure changeover, individual users must demand its utilization. As stated by ManpowerGroup’s Career Vision Survey, millennials are contenders for the largest generation in today’s workforce, making up 1/3rd of the working population by 2020. As well, IBM’s 2018 survey contended that younger generations expect stronger inherent security and will switch security providers otherwise. 74% of respondents stated they were willing to use multi-factor strategies with considerations of increasingly interconnected social media platforms, authenticating various other apps and services while threatening domino effects of seemingly nominal hacks.

Aside from individual consumers, larger corporations should strongly consider cyber hygiene routine checks, building cyber protection into work culture in order to instill an emphasis on security. As cyber-attacks maintain their position as a leading threat in individual and agency privacy, the future of authentication is in the user’s hands. 