#What is legacy software?

#####By Eva O'Keefe - May 31, 2021
In February 2021, over 1.5 million American unemployment claims were exposed to the public due to critical weaknesses in software used by the Washington State Auditor’s office. A month later, hackers manipulated an outdated file-transfer service used by Royal Dutch Shell to steal a massive amount of both personal and corporate data. The common theme of these hacks was the exploitation of *legacy software*—and the affected companies’ scramble to upgrade to safer, more recent platforms.
 

###But what is legacy software, exactly?
 
In the world of computing and development, the term “legacy” refers to technology that is outdated and obsolete. RTS Labs suggests that it’s “any piece of software…or entire system that blocks or slows down an organization’s ability to grow, shift, and adapt in the face of changing market dynamics.” Heimdal Security suggests that legacy software could be a major platform that plays well with other IT components but no longer receives patches from the manufacturer, or software that receives current support but doesn’t comply with recent cybersecurity standards. If you’re running Windows XP, AS/400, or a business application that was written using COBOL or RPG, then you’re using legacy software.
 
Big conglomerates—at least those who haven’t taken the leap to upgrade--are usually running a couple of legacy applications or systems. Some software components from the early 2000s are still enjoying wide usage across both the private and public sectors. Common Business Oriented Language (COBOL) is still the most widely used language for federal government applications--even though it’s about 60 years old.
 
Sometimes, these systems operate just fine. Even some of those early-2000s applications are still capable of powering the critical, day-to-day processes that businesses need them for. Despite the lack of manufacturer support, Chief Information Security Officers (CISOs) or Chief Information Officers (CIOs) are understandably hesitant to replace some of these systems. After all, if it isn’t broken, why fix it?
 
Well, it could be more broken than you think.
 
*Legacy software is a critical data vulnerability*
 
Like Royal Dutch Shell, corporations using antiquated software are more vulnerable to cyberattacks or data breaches. Old software can also possess known security vulnerabilities—without the security updates and patches to protect those vulnerabilities. When an application's manufacturer no longer releases patches, security updates, or maintenance, the data accessed and used by that app automatically becomes more vulnerable to exploitation by ransomware and other malicious cyber activity.

 
*...and a recipe for corporate disaster if the system suddenly fails.*

Many legacy applications were written using antiquated programming languages. Today, developers focus on learning newer, cutting-edge languages like Python and Java—not COBOL, CL, and RPG. The deficit of professionals who are fluent in those languages means that most IT professionals handling legacy applications don’t fully understand how they work, or how to maintain them. Unfortunately, this means a lot of companies are faced with a stack of complicated legacy technology that no one really knows how to handle.
  
According to the Government Accountability Office, the dangers of using legacy software include cost overruns, schedule delays, and even total project failure. Old software that doesn’t play well with newer systems can stall a company from incorporating those newer systems into their assets repertoire. It also runs the risk of becoming quickly incompatible with essential software updates, putting the brakes on business until someone finds a solution.

For some applications, continuing to run old software could be mostly harmless; for others, overlooking outdated systems could result in the loss of critical business data and operational functionality. From file transfer systems to private databases to outdated browsers, it's in the best interests of any corporation to stay alert and stay aware of the security levels of their essential software programs.

