#President Biden’s Vision For More Secure Government Infrastructure

#####By Zachary Schultz - June 11, 2021
On May 12, 2021, President Biden issued EO 14028, otherwise known as “Executive Order on Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity.” With the drastic increase of cyber attacks on the United States recently, the President is taking appropriate steps to ensure that the government’s data is safe and secure.

One of the focuses of the executive order is making sure that both the hardware and software the government receives from contracted companies is safe to be used with the sensitive classified information it possesses. One way the president plans on securing government data is by having tighter regulations on the software supply chain, prioritizing “critical software.” The order states, “Within 30 days of the date of this order [June 11]...the Director of NIST shall solicit input from the Federal Government, private sector, academia, and other appropriate actors to identify existing or develop new standards, tools, and best practices for complying with the standards, procedures or criteria in subsection (e) of this section.” In short, President Biden, seeks a joint effort between government and non-government institutions to secure and protect the information of the United States. Regarding the software supply chain, the Secretary of Commerce will issue guidelines in a few months that identifies practices that aid in securing the supply chain. The guidelines will include plans to:

“Secure software development environments”
Use automated tools to maintain “trusted source code supply chains” and check and fix potential vulnerabilities in products
Maintain data, “origin of software code or components,” and regulations on internal and third-party software, components, tools, etc. used when developing software
Provide the buyer of the software a Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for each product, either with each transaction or posted on the company’s website, and
Establish a “vulnerability disclosure program”

Another aspect of the order is having private sector companies adopt Zero Trust Architecture in order to get the business of the United States government. Zero Trust Architecture is “a security model, a set of system design principles, and a coordinated cybersecurity and system management strategy based on an acknowledgement that threats exist both inside and outside traditional network boundaries.” The architecture requires “continuous verification” from multiple sources to determine a user’s level of access to a network and how the system reacts to that user. It only allows the user to use the bare minimum of the network needed to do their job.

Finally, President Biden also placed an emphasis on using secure cloud-based services. Section 3 of the order states that the President wants to transition to centralized and streamlined cloud services to “drive analytics for identifying and managing cybersecurity risks.” The bottom line is that the President wants the government to transition to cloud-based services in a way that allows the Federal Government to prevent cyber incidents.

TekMonks offers several products to assist in President Biden’s objective of securing the cyber activities of the United States government. First is LoginCat. LoginCat is a multifactor authentication software that uses patented passphrase technology, rather than passwords, to secure both internal and cloud applications. 

Second is Reflection Network, a patented technology created by TekMonks, allowing for the operation of listenless servers. Listenless servers do not listen on, or accept traffic from, external ports, making the network completely isolated. With the servers being isolated from the Internet, they are virtually “un-hackable.”

Finally, TekMonks offers a product called Kloudust, a cloud-based service that allows you to store your data securely on another person’s computer. Kloudust encrypts your data before it is sent to the cloud server and keeps it encrypted while it’s stored on the server.

Even if you are not part of the American government, TekMonks offers plenty of products to keep you and your business’ data safe.


