#From Us To You

#####By Olivia Mandell - May 21, 2020

To the class of 2020, close your eyes. When we’re young, we build images in our minds of what significant moments in our future will look like. For me, it was graduation. I pictured it as the happiest day of my life surrounded by loved ones sending me off into the next chapter as I received the most important piece of paper obtainable- a diploma. I fantasized about this new chapter since I can remember. Now that it’s really happening, it still only feels like a fantasy.


After four years of ups, downs, and everything in between, having the most exciting parts of my college experience disappear in front of my eyes was disheartening, to say the least. The future I had pictured so vividly now seemed scary, unstable, and lonesome. But if there is one spark of wisdom I gained from this roller coaster, it is that I am not alone.


We will remember this forever. Time has a funny way of slipping by us, and this will soon be a crazy memory. We will forever get to humbly brag about graduating into a devastating recession with huge unemployment rates, yet making it out on top.


For some, maybe they are a first-generation graduate. For others, a diploma may feel like a rite of passage. No matter the case, we should all take a moment to appreciate the magnitude of this accomplishment. A degree is a privilege that grants endless opportunities. With that, we can go into the workforce and make an impact that really matters.

While it may not feel like it now, the world is at our fingertips. We studied, stressed, and pushed ourselves past what we knew we were capable of. And for that, we should look in the mirror and be proud of the person we see.


The first piece of advice I can remember receiving was from my grandparents who taught me that with hard work and discipline, you can achieve anything in life. It might seem cliché, but I have carried it with me every day.


Each and every one of us got to where we are now through determination and perseverance. Through these unprecedented times, that same tenacity will bring us to the next chapter even stronger than before.


To the class of 2020, close your eyes. This is not what you pictured, but try again. Picture a year from now when we’re settled into our new lives. Picture ten years from now telling a future generation the true meaning behind patience and diligence. Although it may still seem like a fantasy, it won’t be forever. We can do it, we will do it, and one day we’ll be able to say we did do it.


From us to you, TekMonks congratulates you. We wish each and every 2020 graduate the bright future they deserve. We are here for you and together, we will get through this. It may not be in the way we all pictured, but it will sure be impressive.