#The Biden Administration's Cybersecurity Plan

#####By Abby Rose - February 25, 2021

As a new administration moves into the White House, new policies, agendas, and strategies help Americans understand the new direction this administration will take. The constant struggle of cybersecurity and national security grows stronger every day yet the U.S. Government has not adapted as needed and taken the necessary steps to protect our nation. Although several administrations in the past have defined some strategies and created new branches of the IC to adapt, the actions are slowly implemented and are at a lower priority for the U.S. Government. The Government has mostly relied on contracting out their cybersecurity because it is obvious that the private industry far outweighs the U.S. Government’s capabilities. This is not enough. The Government will most likely always rely on the private sector but that does not mean that they can slack off on their end. 

The Trump administration published a very detailed and well written National Cyber Strategy in 2018 that addresses in detail some of the concerns the U.S. should protect against such as protecting the infrastructure and preparing for the new Quantum Computing capabilities of U.S. adversaries. One commonly mentioned, and reasonably so, critique of this strategy is the lack of specific delegation of these new plans to specific agencies and branches of the IC. One specific agency that should be obviously included but was never mentioned is the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA). The CISA, as implied by its name, is in charge of protecting the critical infrastructure and cybersecurity of the U.S. and should, therefore, have been included in the National Cyber Strategy. 

The Biden administration is very new at this point, only being in the White House for just under two months, but nevertheless, has started the race in a full sprint, implementing several executive orders in the first week of presidency. It is too early for the administration to have published a new National Cyber Strategy, but it is likely that one will be published in the next two years. However, the White House Press Secretary, Jen Psaki, published a brief titled, “President Biden Announces American Rescue Plan,” on Jan 20, 2021. This plan includes mostly COVID related plans of action but includes a bold statement to make strides in the U.S. cybersecurity by committing to increase funding. President Biden’s plan to, “expand and improve the technology modernization fund,” introduces an investment of $9 billion into launching, “major new IT and cybersecurity shared services,” at the CISA and the General Services Administration along with completing modernization projects at federal agencies. The administration is also attempting to get Congress to change the fund’s reimbursement structure, “in order to fund more innovative and impactful projects.” Due to the immediate need for employees who are knowledgeable about the new technology, there will also be a new hiring surge that will be funded with $200 million. Additionally, there will be a $300 million investment in building shared and secure services to, “drive transformational projects.” Lastly, an additional $690 million will be given to the CISA in order to make improvements in, “security monitoring and incident response activities.”

It is important to note that all of the Biden Administration's initiatives are very similar to the Trump Administration’s 2018 Strategy initiatives, as displayed in the following chart.

***

While the Biden Administration seems to lean more towards the "modernization" of cybersecurity more than the previous administration, they are both seeking to achieve the same worthwhile objectives. However, developing objectives is one step but does not complete the journey. In addition, there is not significant evidence that many of the objectives were implemented over the past two years. The Biden Administration has already taken the next step of dedicating funds and leadership but there is still substantial action needed before the U.S. can feel comfortable and secure in their own cyberspace. The next step will be dependent on the performance of the new leadership and what improvements they make with their new funds. As part of those improvements, the Biden Administration will need to also create a new and National Cyber Strategy that goes into more detail on how the U.S. will specifically combat vulnerabilities such as our critical infrastructure and fighting against Quantum Computing.

The new leadership is very impressive and includes many national security veterans with substantial cyber expertise. A new role, Cyber Director, was created and Jen Easterly is the leading candidate for this position. Easterly was formerly a high ranking National Security Agency (NSA) official, held several senior intelligence posts in the Obama administration, helped create U.S. Cyber Command, and is currently the head of resilience at Morgan Stanley. Rob Silvers, who was formerly a high ranking individual at the Department of Homeland Security and the Assistant Secretary for Cyber Policy, will possibly be the new director of the CISA. These are just a few of the possible leaders for cybersecurity and the others have a substantial background in major private companies in order to have some diversity of opinions. 

Phil Reiner, chief executive of the Institute for Security and Technology, commented in an article published by Reuters, “The United States remains woefully unprepared for 21st century security threats - the establishment and prioritization of a DNSA for Cyber and Emerging Tech on the NSC indicated the seriousness the Biden Administration will afford to addressing these challenges.” Technology is a wonderful thing and has allowed individuals to stay connected during major events, such as the pandemic. The nation's connectivity allows incredible advances in health studies, in education, in environmental sciences, etc. and it is important for the U.S. to be among the world leaders in all of these areas such as fighting against disease, educating the next generation of world leaders, and protecting the earth. None of these things are possible if the U.S. Government cannot keep our cybersecurity strong and work preventatively. Many cyber attacks happen to banks, hospitals, and the U.S. Government itself. The U.S. has to be aware of the importance of this issue on their homeland and prioritize it accordingly.


