#Passwords to Passphrases- Zero-Day Protection
Published on October 29, 2019

Olivia Mandell
Account Manager

Late this past August, Google released a compilation of research regarding Apple’s two-year long operations systems vulnerabilities. The document was a part of Google’s Project Zero, a campaign focused on exploiting zero-day threats. The discoveries indicated that a series of related flaws could have affected thousands of devices.

What is a zero-day flaw? Zero-day vulnerabilities are defined as previously unknown threats attacking software that can be exploited by hackers until a patch is released. Patches entail a set of changes to a computer program in order to fix the deficiency. These findings usually begin with a watering hole attack where hackers compromise a website expected to be popular within a targeted group.

In this case, it was used to monitor what a user does on their iPhone by them merely clicking on a webpage link. Google’s experts were able to track user movements within the GPS system, gaining access to passwords and sensitive conversations through iMessage and WhatsApp. In all, fourteen software flaws were uncovered. Seven were within Safari and five across exploit chains. If in the wrong hands, the vulnerabilities would allow hackers to easily install malware onto a user’s computer system.

To gain a deeper understanding of zero-day vulnerabilities, let’s look at it like a newly known threat to a software vendor who does not yet have a solution to the problem. The developer then has “zero days” to fix the exposed defects, leaving users defenseless to exploits until a solution is implemented. No one should ever feel powerless against cyberthreats. As a proactive security measure, TekMonks’ LoginCat offers a comprehensive security software solution to protect against these unknown risks.

As the first comprehensive cybersecurity suite, LoginCat entails AI and zero trust for zero-day exploits. Specifically, it offers advance threat protection, enterprise data breach defenses, and cybersecurity management. This is completed through three strategies.

First, Logincat implements three-factor authentication. This involves passphrases, eliminated User IDs, one-time passwords, second-factor questions, or options of biometrics, AI based authentication, virtual keyboards, and protocol-based logins. Second is through AppSecure, which enforces zero trust with authentication. Lastly is Smart Firewall, focused on the two modules of Reflect and Protect. Reflect incorporates listenless servers, whereas Protect includes SDP firewalls configured as a black hole. As we’ve seen, these extensive defenses protect against vulnerabilities that users are subject to daily simply by sending a text.

Project Zero is an elite unit of Google’s Alphabet Inc., comprised of “cybersleuths” hunting for zero-day vulnerabilities. Sound familiar? In the third blog of this series, I discussed vpnMentor’s grey hat hacking against Suprema’s biometrics security system. While zero-day threats are consequential to users across the globe, Google used this research as a counter to Apple’s recent privacy marketing campaign. My next blog will deliberate both the legality and morality of grey hat hacking, as it is simultaneously performed to protect users while also unearthing the exact vulnerabilities they need to avoid. 

