#The US-Iran Cyber War

#####By Olivia Mandell - July 16, 2019

Rising political tension is a terrifying occurrence. What makes tension even more terrifying? The escalation of tension to war. When we consider the idea of war, our minds wander to the horrors of America’s extensive history of bloody battles and devastation. Unfortunately, most may be unaware that war is already here. On June 20th, President Trump issued a U.S. Cyber Command retaliatory cybersecurity attack against Iran. Public consensus reflected that most were relieved Trump chose a last-minute halt on a U.S. missile launch, which could have killed about 150 Iranians. However, TekMonks’ Vice President of Strategy, Rohit Kapoor, encapsulated both a realistic and necessary reaction to the current events; "This is another issue which underscores the importance of cybersecurity, because even though the real war hasn't started yet, the cyber war has."

To understand how we got to this place, it is crucial to take a look at the antecedent events. In 2010, the U.S. issued a Stuxnet attack against a uranium enrichment facility in Natanz. In response to this, businesses such as JP Morgan, Bank of America, and Capital One were targeted, causing effects on the New York Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. In 2013, Iranian hackers took control of a command-and-control network within a dam outside of New York. 2014 included a digital strike on Sheldon Adelson’s Las Vegas casinos, and 2018 brought about SamSam ransomware in Atlanta, costing millions in reparation. Specifically, within the area of the Persian Gulf, cyber tensions have also vastly increased on account of incidents such as an attack on two oil tankers, the destruction of a $240 million drone, and attempts to infiltrate global financial institutions, all of which was blamed on Iran.

Given the underlying cyber threats, the events of June 20th can be analyzed with more insight. The cyberattack issued by the U.S. was against an Iranian spy group affiliated with the Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), designated by the U.S. presidency as a terrorist organization. The IRGC tracked ships through the Strait of Hormuz, a body of water that serves as a large oil passageway and separates Iran from the UAE and Bahrain. As well, it is where 7,000 U.S. troops are currently deployed at the base of the U.S. Navy’s 5th Fleet. In the meantime, Iran’s digital capabilities have only been intensifying against the fleet. Through social media, there have been incidents of catfishing operations to take advantage of troops and gather high security information. As well, through infiltrating ship-tracking websites, hackers have been able to track naval movements. Likewise, U.S. digital networks have been hijacked for the purpose of accessing drones and GPS systems.

Overwhelming, right? Following all of this, one can only wonder where these continuous retaliations are heading. While it is believed that Iran does not have the capabilities to attack U.S. missile systems, easier targets hit the average working American even harder through fragile areas of U.S. infrastructure, private industries, and government agencies. According to warnings from CISA, American citizens desperately need to be on the lookout for common Iranian hacking techniques such as credential stuffing, password spraying, data wipers, and spear-phishing emails with detrimental malware. Strikes such as these are considered shadow tactics, falling below the threshold of armed conflict. This strategy has historically been used by Iran as a method in “shadow war” and will only continue to amplify as time goes on. With products such as CitySafe, a trail-blazing innovation, and LoginCat, a 360 degree zero trust cybersecurity solution, any organization can protect themselves through Tekmonks.

As cautioned by the NSA, “In these times of heightened tensions, it is appropriate for everyone to be alert to signs of Iranian aggression in cyberspace and ensure appropriate defenses are in place.” Digital attacks in times of global hostility is a new concept we must accept as war and take strong precaution against. Anyone could be targeted at any time, so it is crucial to both be aware of and ready for this kind of strike. The future is digital, and now so is war.

