#Is Remote Work Sustainable?

#####By Olivia Mandell - May 19, 2020

As the workforce turns digital, I find myself wondering whether this was inevitable. Before COVID-19, our economy was being driven by the forth revolution, or the technology revolution. However, between 2005 and 2015, the percentage of people regularly working remotely only increased from 2% to 3%. According to a recent study by the National Bureau of Economic Research, 37% of US jobs are plausible in a fully remote setting. Now, about 1/3rd of the workforce is remote.


While these statistics do not match the idea of an inevitable digital workforce, this is due to the fact that successful remote work revolves around video conferencing and material sharing applications. This surfaces issues surrounding employee engagement, technical difficulties, productivity, innovation through collaboration, and so on. Overall, the transition between a physical and digital office space is generally difficult for both employees and employers.


Communicating over video can be awkward, to say the least. As researched by a Stanford University psychology professor, video conferences lead to an uncomfortably close video experience and people unavoidably speaking over one another. This is a vast contrast to the regular in-person experience. As well, offices allow employers to keep an eye on their employees. It seems that a digital setting lacks the motivation, social bonding, mentorship, and professional development needed to match a physical space.


As explained by Rohit Kapoor, the Vice President of TekMonks, technology does not help human psychology, especially in the workplace. In a workplace setting, there is a combination of three factors. First is the fairness principle, where employees attempt to perceive fairness between them and their coworkers. This can include hours worked, effort put in, and so on. Remote work can greatly feed into this as employees cannot physically see how long each worker stays in the office, how often they are taking breaks, etc. When in doubt, people compensate by investing a little less, decreasing productivity.


The last two factors include social interaction and the feeling of a physical office space. Buildings allow for both casual and professional communications. Notably, applications used to do so are generally not cohesive. Office experiences cannot be forced. People need a digital office integrating everything into one “virtual building,” allowing for professional comradery and cohesion as a proper physical office would.


Teleworkr, the newest TekMonks product, is designed as a digital office with the right social functions to set an atmosphere for productivity and connectivity. Rohit points to three features that combat the previously named issues surrounding remote work. These include telepresence, drop in video/chats, and a unified space for materials.


Telepresence enables workers to see who is doing what within your team, virtually, with you. This assists employees in feeling part of a social group again, decreasing complications associated with the fairness principle. Fairness returns and workers feel validated and treated as part of the group again. This also eases employee insecurity, enabling a much better quality of work life.


Drop in video/chat permits secure office calls and the ability to create casual, non-scheduled video calls with one or more office mate. Hence, it tackles the consequences associated with the social interaction consideration. Lastly, the unified chat, video, telepresence, virtual desk, and shared files component paves the way for a successful digital office. Employees can check in and out of the workday, all from one integrated virtual space.


To fix the issues surrounding remote work, companies must invest in a comprehensive digital office. The successful replication of a physical office space to a digital experience has yet to occur. However, this is a top priority for the future of our economy both during and following COVID-19. Teleworkr is designed just for that and is being offered free for ninety days during these strenuous times. Companies have many physical offices, and now the time has come for an acceptable digital one too.