#Cyber Attacks Against Health Organizations Continue

#####By Zach Schultz - June 3, 2021
On May 24, 2021, Chris van Gorder, president and CEO of Scripps Health, sent a written letter to Scripps patients revealing that the last month of service disruptions was due to a ransomware attack. Someone who was not authorized to be on the network gained access to it, and the personal information of 147,000 individuals, despite not accessing the medical record application. 

Five hospitals and a handful of outpatient clinics in San Diego have been affected by the attack. It has caused patients’ appointments to be rescheduled, and employees are unsure of what the future holds for them. One employee in the business unit of Scripps said that she does not expect to be able to work for at least another week. She is quoted as saying, “We’re not allowed to go into the office. I have a laptop at home that I’m not allowed to use because you can’t even login to the system. However, we are given the option to be put into a work pool.” This employee claims that she’s had almost no communication with Scripps about the situation.

The health system disconnected a large portion of its infrastructure from the Internet as a means of protecting the data that may not have been compromised. Unfortunately, Scripps is not completely secure yet. Chris van Gorder said in his letter, “Other attackers are already using what is being reported in the media to send scam communications to our organization.”

###What Does This Mean For You?
Especially during a pandemic, it can be very troubling to know that institutions in the health industry are being actively targeted by cyber criminals. If you discover that a medical institution you use has suffered a cyber attack, take steps to ensure the security of your personal information. You can enable fraud alerts and freeze your credit card if you notice charges to your account that you did not make.

Everyone should also take steps to ensure the safety and security of personal information. TekMonks provides two products that can help keep your information safe, and ensure that unauthorized individuals cannot gain access to it. First is LoginCat, a multifactor authentication (MFA) software. Rather than passwords, LoginCat uses patented passphrase technology, making both internal and cloud applications significantly more secure. Secondly, TekMonks has a product called Reflection Network. Reflection Network allows businesses to operate listenless servers, which are servers that do not listen on external ports or accept any traffic from them. Their complete isolation makes these servers essentially un-hackable.

In a world of evolving cyber weapons, consider getting a “cyber shield” to protect yourself and your business.
