#Cybersecurity For The Second Wave

#####By Abby Rose - June 12, 2020

##Provoking the Second Wave
Some predicted that COVID-19 would have a second wave based on the study of previous epidemic and pandemics, but many thought the prediction was a hasty presumption. Data shows that with the reopening of cities and increase of gatherings, that it is not only a possibility, but is starting to occur. It should not come as a surprise that standing in a crowd for a long period of time increases the likelihood of spreading the virus. Anthony Fauci, the director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, commented on the issue, reminding us, “others have organized less risky forms of protests, such as Oakland’s Anti Police-Terror Project’s massive ‘caravan for justice’.” George Floyd’s death is a tragedy that provoked a call to action that is far overdue but it should be promoted in an effective and safe way. Social distancing has been completely disregarded because the virus has decreased in cases but it is far from gone. 

##Medical Opinions and Predictions
While the conversation of non-experts relate the patters of COVID-19 to the pandemic in 1918, medical experts agree that a second wave is likely but based on different evidence. ,” Dr. Eric Cioe-Pena, an emergency physician and director of global health at Northwell Health in New Hyde Park, New York, remarks, “We’ve seen coronaviruses act in very different ways… Some of them are very seasonal, some of them are not…so we don’t know what the pattern is going to be with this one.” Dr. Robert Glatter, an emergency physician at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City, reported that he still anticipates the second wave of infections to hit in the fall. Glatter points out that the flu season reoccurs every year during a consistent time and, although they are not the same in nature, the flu will weaken immune systems causing people to be more susceptible to COVID-19. Glatter predicts, “Combined with influenza, the intensity of both viruses combined could make our initial COVID-19 look benign.”

To understand how the virus might react to the weather, southern countries are important to monitor because they are in the middle of winter, when the U.S. experiences summer. The John Hopkins University coronavirus tracking site clearly shows a rise in many southern countries as they move toward the middle of their winter season. Countries such as Brazil, Chile, and Peru are experiencing serious increases in cases from the most current statics from June 12, 2020. Even those who may have caught the virus before with minimal to no effects, could have more serious reactions to the second round of COVID-19 if their immune system is weakened from the flu. The best thing to do is to maintain as much social distancing as much as possible until the virus is effectively contained. 

##Result of Countries Opening Again
Countries that opened up, believing they had contained the coronavirus, are seeing another increase in cases. The Middle East has recently been opening up bars and cafés with no social distancing suggestions or requirements of masks. People who have been locked up in their houses and respecting the guidelines are eager to do as much as they are allowed when they are lifted. It is all a carefree and normal environment in Tel Aviv, Amman, and Tehran. The result, infections and deaths have jumped in Iran, Israel has struggled to maintain the virus in their schools, Saudi Arabia reported surges in hospitalization, and governments refuse to shut down again because of the economic effects.

Some other experts comment on the reopening of the U.S. in a panel conducted by The Guardian. The panel selected included: Elaine Nsoesie, assistant professor of global health, Boston University School of Public Health; Jessica Justman, professor and attending physician in the division of infectious diseases at the Columbia University Irving Medical Center; David Rubin, director of PolicyLab at Children’s hospital of Philadelphia and a professor of pediatrics at the Perelman School of Medicine at the University of Pennsylvania. 

Rubin encouraged that states can reopen as long as people are careful, use masks, and avoid large gathering even though they are inconveniences. Reopening does not mean back to normal just yet. 

Nsoesie had some fairly realistic observations on the attitude of people in states that have reopened thus far, pointing out that because it is summer, people are going out and not caring about taking precautions. Because of the response, the second wave might not hit all states but will affect most. 

Justman also encourages that the risk of the second wave, lifting restrictions, and increases from the protests could still be prevented as long as people are wearing masks and being careful. 

###Continue Working From Home
The Second Wave may still occur, and the virus is far from gone, so being prepared to face more social distancing restrictions is a necessity for businesses to survive. More than 70% of companies are concerned about the disruption of a second wave and many are unprepared. With the second wave approaching, 21% of companies don’t have a pandemic plan and process in place. Only 36% have implemented the effective cyber security to stay fully online. In the UK, there are some major opening plans in effect but the Prof Maggie Rae, president of the Faculty of Public Health, remarks, “The number is falling, but it’s still high,” in regard to the number of COVID-19 cases. An article by The Guardian regarding what plans should be in place for the fall warns, "Developing a strategy is now a matter of urgency.” Working from home is something that companies need to be prepared to do if they have not already. If companies do not plan for the future, they will not be in future. 

###Second Wave of Cyberattacks
When any crisis occurs, people find a way to exploit the situation and prey on fear. Hackers are no exception and have taken advantage of the pandemic time and time again, from phishing emails to collection information from private companies using unsecured methods of going online. Many law enforcement alerts have warned against spikes in COVID-19 cybercrimes. The laws that required businesses to shut down created a situation that hackers could only dream of with so many unplanned strained and unarmed corporate network systems creating a major vulnerability. 

In an article by the Hill titled, “Prepare now for the second wave of coronavirus hacking,” the threat of foreign hackers was also raised. Foreign hackers, such as groups in China, have prepared for a situation such as this for decades by saturating American corporate systems with networking gear manufactured by military-back companies. The equipment provided has been prepared with backdoors, creating possible access to many critical corporate networks in the U.S. 

Iranian cyber criminals have also been hoarding passwords and setting up backdoors in the “Virtual Private Network” servers that many American businesses depend upon for secure working online networks. Although many of these threats have not been used just yet, they are siting disasters and will likely be used when IT professionals are overwhelmed with other tasks. A second wave will create the perfect opportunity. 

Corporate America, education systems and the federal government are all at risk if there is a second wave and require effective plans to be in place. Remote working is becoming a normal practice overall and an obvious vulnerability. The Hill makes a very important observation on the subject,

Meanwhile companies are being forced to leave in place compromised routers and switches from even the most suspect of manufacturers, as removing them would lead to a degradation of network capacity at the exact moment when it is valued most. The continued presence of that compromised infrastructure — which, ironically, the President just signed a law allotting $1 billion to remove — gives Chinese hackers a very tempting vector by which they can penetrate American networks. 

In a time of crisis, many cyber security companies are there to help and make sure that companies have the ability to work effectively with the knowledge that their employees and information are safe. TekMonks has several products to help protect against those risks. One of these products is Teleworkr, a digital office platform where cybersecurity and productivity meet. 

