#Passwords to Passphrases- Zero Trust Cybersecurity

#####By Olivia Mandell - September 19, 2019

Another week goes by, another unnerving security deficiency headlines the news. A potentially large-scale cybersecurity flaw was discovered within BioStar 2, a web-based biometric security smart lock program implemented by Suprema. While the inadequacy was uncovered by a Virtual Private Network (VPN) and web privacy anonymity expert company without transparent authority, the flaw would have caused lifelong ramifications if breached by a cybercriminal. The biometrics leak would have hit bank and defense systems, including the UK metropolitan police. What would be the difference between this and any other hack? Biometrics includes the effortless new means of security utilizing fingerprints and facial recognition. When these physical traits are copied, you are hacked forever. This is the extreme danger of biometrics and once again highlights the necessity of zero trust cybersecurity, as seen in Tekmonks’ LoginCat.


Suprema, a top 50 security manufacturer, has the highest market share in biometric access control throughout the EMEA region. In its use of BioStar 2, Suprema facilitated a centralized access control system integrated into AEOS. This included 5,700 organizations across 83 countries. VpnMentor, the world’s largest VPN review website of ethical hackers, underwent research that eventually indicated Suprema’s platform could be easily hacked through manipulating URL search criteria in Elasticsearch. This led to the discovery that 27.8 million records and 23 gigabytes of data were vulnerable. The records and data included face photos of users, logs of facility access, security clearances, personal staff details, and so on.


Through the availability of this information, hackers would have the ability to see millions of users employing company systems in real time. Even more frightening, they could change data within the network by adding new accounts and biometrics. This would allow hackers to access data from co-working organizations across the globe while saving biometric information for threatening motives.


The vulnerabilities were uncovered on August 5th and vpnMentor attempted to communicate the discoveries to Suprema by August 7th. With no response, the deficiencies ceased on August 13th. Companies can do their best to make security alterations to their networks but in all, biometrics strikes cannot be undone. Once hacked, a building’s security infrastructure becomes useless and users are vulnerable to account takeovers, fraud, identity theft, blackmail, and a loss of protection to their private information such as messages, pictures, and payment methods.


To quote vpnMentor’s report, “one of the more surprising aspects of this leak was how unsecured the account passwords we accessed were.” Clearly a reoccurring theme, this potential leak could have been easily avoidable with better protection methods. Suggestions included saving a hash version of your fingerprint, implementing rules on databases, utilizing stricter website security measures, and employing password meters to test password strength. Most impactful, companies must take advantage of successful protection strategies through products such as LoginCat, a zero trust security model.


Zero trust is mentioned often as a preeminent cybersecurity design, but what is it? Prior to zero trust, cyber protection relied on a castle-and-moat concept. This made it difficult to access information outside of a company’s network while providing default trust within the network. In clear terms, if hackers gained internal access, they gained access to everything. As this was evidently unsustainable, the zero trust concept was founded in 2010, the same year TekMonks was established. As a protection method for the enterprise IT environment, zero trust is necessary as cyberattacks continue to become increasingly more sophisticated.


As a security concept, zero trust means internal systems innately do not trust anything or anyone inside or outside of the organization. It entails less use of hackable data centers and more use of cloud storage throughout multiple devices and locations. Zero trust incorporates technology such as multifactor authentication, encryption, and filing system permission along with governance policies entrusting a least privilege access concept.


As quoted by Tekmonks’ Vice President, Rohit Kapoor, “LoginCat supports a variety of authentication factors. Protection methods like passphrases are stronger than biometrics without the risk of getting hacked for life.” Going beyond biometrics, products such as LoginCat have the full capability to take back the cyber environment, transforming security management for the future. 