#Passwords to Passphrases- The Right Authentication
Published on August 22, 2019

Olivia Mandell
Account Manager

In the first article of this four-part series, the essential progression of password security was discussed in regard to cyber protection against large-scale breaches such as Equifax’s. Need more proof? On July 19th, Capital One reported a historic breach affecting over 106 million people, costing the company 100-150 million dollars. Still not convinced? It took Capital One four months to notice and take action. Let’s take a closer look as to why companies are now investing in zero trust security models, such as TekMonks’ LoginCat. 

Commencing on March 22nd, Paige Thompson, a former Amazon Web Services (AWS) employee, gained access to critical personal data of Capital One’s customers and applicants through their AWS cloud service. The breach occurred through Capital One’s misconfigured firewall, as firewall issues have been a longstanding matter in cyber security. Between March 22nd and March 23rd, Thompson gained entry to 140,000 social security numbers, 80,000 bank account numbers, and 1,000,000 social insurance numbers, landing her five years in prison with $250,000 in fines. Given the alarming realization that Capital One only became aware of this attack due to external tips, firms must take responsibility for strengthening their infrastructure to follow the increasing number of cybercrimes. 

To delve into the technicalities, Thompson used the misconfigured firewall to access private servers through the Identity and Access Management (IAM) system. Once she was on the server, she was able to act as if she was the server. This gained her entry into the EC2 Instance, allowing her to copy and download 700 S3 buckets. Continuing, Thompson ran the List Buckets and Sync commands from the Command Line Interface (CLI). Capital One did not disclose how their server was left open in combination with how Thompson exploited the deficiency. In all, this was an easily avoidable mistake. Looking toward the future, processes should be put into place to ensure the security of these fragile systems. 

At a 2015 keynote address at Amazon’s Web Services conference, Capital One’s CIO stated AWS as the bank’s strategy toward financial data security. A mere four years later, the firm was part of one of the most substantial hacks of any large-scale financial institution. What’s most concerning centers around the aftermath of various security measure suggestions, such as in a recent Washington Post article. The post advised tactics such as changing your passwords often, which we learned to be harmful in the previous Passwords to Passphrases article. 

Current authentication models assume anyone who has authenticated successfully should be trusted. In case of Capital One, since Thompson was able to authenticate successfully, she was also able to exploit this model where the system, then-onwards, blindly trusted her. A much better approach is to move beyond passwords and blind trust. This is where the latest zero trust systems such as TekMonks’ LoginCat and Google’s BeyondCorp model help. 

As previously mentioned, LoginCat is a preeminent zero trust security model by TekMonks that is necessary in order to establish the minimization of authentication and security gaps. With zero trust and passphrase systems, LoginCat would act as a safety net in alarming breaches such as Capital One’s. 

LoginCat assures that companies do not have to rely on AWS logins for security, acting as a digital broker for zero trust and trust connectivity. Through the product, identities are verified through the concept of earning trust. In the scenario of BeyondCorp, as implemented by Google in Gmail, the system asks you to log in and presents challenges if you are in an unfamiliar location or acting differently than usual. 

Similarly, LoginCat identifies and establishes trust through multifactor authentication. Once obtained, trust is reinforced either positively or lost negatively, depending on the user’s actions. As will be discussed in the next article of this series, LoginCat’s tactics are stronger than both AWS and biometrics systems with consideration of a recent and terrifying biometrics banking hack. 

The current cyber environment consists of clear black and white access. In real life, various levels of security are naturally incorporated in any successful security model. How much access does a user need? What requirements should be in place for distinct levels of access? Similar to Google’s BeyondCorp, the idea of protecting internal networks through granted access eliminates the necessity for firewalls and Virtual Private Networks (VPN). Through LoginCat’s methodologies, companies will be leading in security along with not being susceptible to such attacks that Capital One suffered. Hundreds of billions of dollars are lost a year due to simple and easily mended issues, and TekMonks has the solution. 