#Top Five 2020 Predictions

#####By Olivia Mandell - January 7, 2020

In an interview with Rohit Kapoor, the Vice President of TekMonks, he detailed his top five 2020 predictions based around rising attacks, targeted industries, and expert advice on how to make a decade of technology safe.

##What are your top five predictions for 2020 in regard to the following topics?

##1) What kinds of technology lead cyberattacks?

Automated AI-based attacks are on the rise. Cyberattack toolkits will be updated to use AI so even immature hackers can use them to cause sophisticated hacks and attacks.

While 5G and IPv6 attacks will also rise up, remember IPv6 has no concept of NAT and provides public IPs to almost everything. This will start in 2020 and grow in 2021 approximately through 2024.

As well, phones will be hacked with malicious apps.  

Already when it comes to numbers, most of the cyberattacks we are seeing on our infra this year are automated. 


##2) Which industries do you think will be hit the most?

Financials, governments... same as earlier years.

Financial industries get hit due to monetary motives while government industries are actual cyber-warfare with countries spying and hacking each other and continue to intensify.

Cars, homes, manufacturing, power plants, etc. - IoT devices will also get attacked. 


##3) What types of attacks will be the most dominant?

When it comes to average people…

Social attacks and Phishing will continue to dominate, as they can't be stopped by cybersecurity advances. As well, phone hacking will be prevalent since hacking someone's phone completely opens their entire life to the hacker. Some governments are very interested in this. 

When it comes to governments and AI…

Very complex attacks using AI get in and remain persistent, i.e. hackers don't get caught and stay inside siphoning information. 


##4) What is your biggest advice to businesses?

Please read up on AI for cyberattacks. Like everything else, AI is a dual use technology. It most definitely will be used for good and bad as well. And remember the movie Terminator - Only AI can fight AI. So, look into active AI cyber-defense. 


##5) What is your best advice to consumers? 

Read above, social attacks and phishing are prominent. It's very hard to stop these. Be vigilant when online. Just like you don't share personal information with a stranger on the street, don't do it online either - if an email is asking for money or passwords - just NEVER do it. Simple. If it's genuinely your bank or someone wanting to reach you - they will definitely find another way to reach you e.g. phone call or letter if you ignore their emails. 


Don't trust an APP - don't install on your phone. When you give an app permission to record audio, read files, get your location and contacts - understand what you are doing - it can then read all your pictures, see your location and friends, and hear all your conversations. Ask yourself - do you trust this app to do the right thing with your entire life's contents?