#Another Round of Ransomware 

#####By Lauren Morris - June 14, 2021
On May 30th, a hacker group called REvil executed a ransomware attack against JBS, forcing it to shut down operations. JBS is the world’s largest meatpacker, responsible for processing one-fifth of America’s meat supply.

JBS has now paid $11 million in bitcoin to REvil in order to unencrypt its systems. JBS chose to pay the ransom to prevent repercussions on the restaurants and grocery stores that purchase meat packaged by JBS. According to Andre Nogueira, JBS’s US Chief Executive, The ransom was paid after many JBS plants were already functioning again.

The ransomware attack on JBS has been linked to Russian groups, causing US relations with Russia to become increasingly strained. President Joe Biden, who was due to have a call with Russian President Vladimir Putin on April 13th, is reported to have discussed this and previous attacks with the Russian government.

REvil, Ransomware Evil, is a ransomware-as-a-service operation. Also called Sodinokibi and Sodin, the organization is based out of Russia. It first came to prominence in April of 2019. After using ransomware against a corporation, REvil publishes an auction on their website, “Happy Blog,” where the captured information can be purchased by the highest bidder if the ransom is not paid on time.

Why should this attack matter to you? Many cyber attacks on large companies can seem far removed from our day-to-day lives. Occasionally, they will have some impact on us, such as the run on gas that followed the ransomware attack on Colonial Pipeline. Usually, they seem like just another news story. However, corporations are not the only targets of ransomware attacks.

There were 304 million ransomware attacks in 2020--a 62% increase from the previous year. Ransomware attacks are nearly impossible to undo. In most cases, once files are captured and encrypted, the only way to get them back is by paying the ransom.

So, what should you do?

The best protection against ransomware attacks is prevention. It is vital to have a security system installed on your device to protect yourself from cyberattacks. Products, such as TekMonks’ LoginCat, protect you from having your login information stolen by running MFA (multi-factor authentication). Other systems, such as CyberWarrior, utilize AI (artificial intelligence) to combat attacks perpetrated by AI systems. 

Having good cyber-hygiene is also crucial to protecting yourself. Always use passwords that are difficult to crack, and never use the same password for multiple platforms or accounts. Ensure all systems running on your computer are kept up to date. Additionally, it is good to keep a secure offsite backup of any important files on your computer.

