#CyberWarrior
<p style="font-size:25px; text-align:center">AI for CyberSecurity</p>

The only way to combat Artificial Intelligence is AI itself. Because smart attacks require smart security. Thus, CyberWarrior was conceived – an AI expert system developed by TekMonks for cyber defense.

CyberWarrior is a networking Expert System as its collective expertise and domain falls under the category of security and system administrators. It uses facts and rules provided by the collective expertise of many human beings to help decide and solve problems in its domain. It monitors network and aggregate information like other Security Information and Event Management (SIEM) solutions then use AI to detect attacks or anomalies. It is the only product that uses its collected knowledge before acting. Just as an expert would do when being presented with the knowledge of the current network health, it defends the network after detection of the attack efficiently. 

Built to behave like a human, the strength and unique capability of CyberWarrior is its efficiency of carrying out commands to detect anomalies and prevent attacks. Instead of losing time by separating both monitoring and decision making between software and experts, Cyberwarrior boasts both aspects in parallel. This is because it collects information and analyses new threats while taking an instantaneous course of action. It resolves attack in milliseconds only if not seconds whenever a current threat arises. 
Contrary to the misconception of using AI technology, CyberWarrior is not intended to replace existing systems but complements them instead. It turns components pre-existed within the network into their smart version. 
Cyberwarrior strengthens everything in the network it has access to, like a router for instance. It adds levels of speed and consistency to network security monitoring and defense. It does not rest as it continuously provides instructions to the network devices to repel attacks in inhumane time. System administrators will not be overwhelmed on receiving notifications about incoming network attacks and having to act under pressure, but instead will be notified about prevented attacks.
