#The Stresses of Leading in Cyber

#####May 05, 2021
All jobs come with a measure of stress as part of the package. But for a CISO, IT Director, or any head of an organization’s cybersecurity team, the stress of the job can be significantly higher. A day in the life of a cybersecurity professional is often punctuated with high-pressure challenges. Holding the responsibility for the entirety of an organization’s data can be burdensome, and some studies have gone so far as to designate CISOs stress as an industry pandemic. A 2018 Symantec report showed that 82% of cyber and IT professionals in Europe experienced burnout, and many of these people were even contemplating abandoning their high-pressure roles. To make matters worse, many CISOs have recently experienced the turbulent transition to managing their teams in digital environments. With the lion’s share of our infrastructure relying on the integrity of our computer networks, keeping things safe and running smoothly can be a daunting and high-pressure feat. In honor of Stress Awareness Month, the TekMonks team asked some friendly neighborhood CISOs and IT professionals to share their perspectives on the stress of leading in cyber—and how they cope with it.

##What the stressors are 
Leaders in cyber often have to think on their feet and adapt—quickly—to unplanned situations. They are often in “an emergency, incident response footing,” as one CISO explained, saying that he recently managed the response to a fiber cut while watching his son’s soccer game. For these professionals, thinking on their feet and cultivating a “one-team, one fight” environment is critical to successful incident response. And it’s part of what makes the job exciting. “A firefighter signs up to fight fires, and so too, white hats sign up to face off against black hats,” the same individual said.
 
Managing the organization’s priorities is a critical responsibility for leaders in cyber, and making the right call is important. It can be tempting to throw all of a team’s resources at the chaos of day-to-day operations, losing sight of long-term plans and goals. However, the big-picture initiatives are what help reduce the chaos in the long run. At Patrick Henry College, it was the strategic allocation of resources over a multi-year period that helped the IT team achieve stability over the network. Getting reliable systems in place was key to reducing the frenzy of the day-to-day, but it didn’t happen overnight. 
 
Like with most jobs, the team makes or breaks the product, and managing people is just as important as managing resources. Excellent employees in the cybersecurity field are generally sharp, good at thinking on their feet, and come from diverse backgrounds. This makes them effective, but they’re also spirited and opinionated, according to one CIO. The differences among the team members can have an iron-sharpens-iron effect, but they can also be sources of tension and conflict. Keeping a team on the same page and pulling in one direction is another stressful issue that high-level leaders in cyber continuously face.
 
Hacks and intrusions take stress to the next level. Mr. Jeffrey Good, who currently serves as the Director of Information Technology at Patrick Henry College, previously worked an IT role for a small business administration. In 2000, the organization’s web server was hacked and defaced. “It feels like someone broke into your house and ransacked the place,” Mr. Good shared. A security breach or operational hiccup can happen at any time of day or night. When you never know if there is a vulnerability in your security software, an undiscovered backdoor, or some other threat to the organization’s network, it’s a challenge to mentally leave your job at behind when you walk out the door. According to a survey comparing cybersecurity professionals with average American workers, CISOs are more than twice as likely to report poor work-life balance. 

##How they cope
It’s important not to process network intrusions, data breaches, or other security issues as indicators of personal failure—and that goes for both team members and organization leaders. It’s ok to be wrong sometimes, and it’s important that no one feels like they’re being held to an impossible standard. Holding honest debriefings and cultivating an atmosphere of trust and safety to discuss any issues is key to the fight. Employees should be able to boldly discuss what went wrong, what went right, and what to change in order to work for a better tomorrow. 
 
In an intensely digital age, it’s hard for cybersecurity professionals to disconnect from their work. However, considering the high demands of the job, withdrawing and unplugging from the Internet can be critical for mental and physical health. For Mr. Good, the solution is escaping to the mountains for a week of camping and detoxing from the Internet. For another CIO, the answer is long rides on his mountain bike. (See a trend?)
 
Intentionally stepping back from work is a must. Mr. Good draws the line at helping friends with their computer woes when he’s out of the office. It took years to get there, but at this point in his career, he just hands over the business card for a trusted company. When a friend or family member brings him a malfunctioning phone or computer, he is glad to point them in the right direction, but knows he has limits. After over two decades in IT, he recognizes that preserving the mental resources he needs to do his job is essential.
 
Encouraging every member of the team to take time to recharge is important for their mental health, and it’s also a practical tool for boosting overall efficiency. When the team is mentally rested, the ideas flow more freely, and group productivity soars.

Minimizing burnout is especially important when the team is working remotely. Some CISOs will implement special protocols for situations like these. “During incident response, if the team hits a wall, I'll shut down the call and have the team take a break for 30 minutes. They often come back with a fresh perspective and new ideas on how to tackle the problem,” one Deputy CIO explained. “If you're banging your head against the wall, stop! Maybe you just need to back up and see the door.”
