#Infrastructure Cybersecurity Vulnerabilities

#####By Olivia Mandell - April 30, 2020

On February 11th, 1970, the U.S. Defense Department’s Task Force on Computer Security compiled a Ware Report highlighting risks associated with vastly growing “multi-access, resource-sharing computer systems.” A week after the report’s fifty-year anniversary, the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) issued an alert of a ransomware attack on a prominent natural gas compression facility. While the Ware Report was declassified by 1975, it is evident that yet another silent symptom has been sustained within critical infrastructure cybersecurity vulnerabilities.


Within this cyberattack, the hacker utilized a spear phishing link to access the company’s internal network. From there, commodity ransomware was employed in order to “encrypt data for impact” on both public facing and operational networks within the system. Consequently, a loss of availability, partial loss of view, and loss of productivity and revenue resulted from insufficient segmentation and compromised Windows-based assets on the network.


While this aftermath is significant, a finger can be pointed at the company. The victim of this attack had gaps in cybersecurity knowledge, which is the case for a great deal of consumers. However, the most impactful oversight included a lack of consideration for an initial emergency response plan involving cybersecurity. Inevitably, the company had to shut down operations for two days with no guarantee of restored data or assets.


As seen through this case, companies still have not adequately addressed or taken the necessary measures within their cybersecurity controls. In response, CISA has provided mitigation advice in order to improve future security needs. This entails multi-factor authentication for remote access, data backup, segmentation of networks, and a strong cyber emergency plan. Through analyzing the problem, examining related policy considerations, and making technical recommendations, CISA is setting an example for any sized business across the globe.


In a time of extreme uncertainty as the job market turns digital, silent symptoms such as this must be thwarted. In order to take part in sustained security, TekMonks is offering a COVID-19 special to receive their newest product, Teleworkr, free for ninety days. Teleworkr allows both a safe and productive virtual office space with the highest level of zero trust cybersecurity.


As recommended by CISA, Teleworkr is comprised of a secure multi-factor login, role-based access portals, and SmartFirewall with “Virtual Segmented Network” isolation. There are no additional software requirements beyond web browsers while also allowing employees to work together in a cohesive virtual office experience. Essentially, Teleworkr is a complete virtual office with the accountability of a physical office, enabling social distancing with digital proximity.


Cyber threats do not stop for anything or anyone, even in the case of a global pandemic. By implementing cybersecurity developments into our personal and work lives while also taking the necessary daily precautions to stay healthy, we will get through these difficult times together both safely and securely.