#Attackers Agree to Not Target Healthcare Anymore

#####By Abby Rose - March 19, 2020

##COVID-19 and Cyber-attacks 
###Phishing Emails
During a time of panic, while the world faces a pandemic, scam and cyber-attacks have spared no time exploiting people’s fear. The internet is flooded with all types of attacks such as phishing emails disguised as a WHO email containing information on COVID-19. In addition to the more official looking emails, there have also been many emails that look like just a friend sending information on how to protect against COVID-19. These phishing emails contain viruses in many forms including spyware that allows someone to steal personal information such as logins. See how to protect against these types of attack in our previous article regarding phishing email attacks. 

###COVID-19 Maps 
Many people are using the very helpful and informative live update maps to see the visible spread of COVID-19 around the world. These maps may download malware along with the maps if you are not careful. There have been several reports of maps that come from malicious sites but are disguised as popular and trustworthy sources such as John Hopkins University’s map. The map itself is quite fascinating, containing facts about the number of cases in each country, red bubbles that show visually where the spread has occurred, and statistics of how many have recovered. The official URL is: https://coronavirus.jhu.edu/map.html. 

Some of the known FAKE URLs contain something like “coronavirusstatus,” “coronavirus-map,” or “coronavirus-realtime,” and the domain of “.com” or “.space.”   

###Healthcare Attacks
Even in the event of a pandemic, cyber-attacks have hit U.S. healthcare facilities. Only a few days ago the U.S. Health and Human Services Department’s (HHS) computer networks were attacked. The National Security Council made this statement about the incident given by John Ullyot, “We are aware of a cyber incident related to the Health and Human Services computer networks, and the federal government is investigating this incident thoroughly.” The networks are now working normally but not without disruption in a time of crisis. The attack was conducted by overloading the HHS servers with millions of hits over several hours. There have been other healthcare attacks and serious ransomware attacks as well. One of the newest ransomwares called NetWalker, inputs malicious code into Windows Explorer, hoping to hide from detection. 

##Attackers Promise No Healthcare Attacks 
Lawrence Abrams, creator and owner of BleepingComputer.com, made a fascinating agreement with cyber-threat actors reaching out to Maze, DoppelPaymer, Ryuk, Sodinokibi/REvil, PwndLocker, and Ako Ransomware infections to “ask if they would continue targeting health and medical organizations during the outbreak”. The initial response was from DoppelPaymer stated, “[We] always try to avoid hospitals, nursing homes, if it's some local gov - we always do not touch 911 (only occasionally is possible or due to missconfig in their network).” They even assured that if accidentally targeted, they would, “decrypt for free.” Maze also responded stating, "We also stop all activity versus all kinds of medical organizations until the stabilization of the situation with virus." We can only hope that this is true and use preventative measures regardless of their statements. If healthcare facilities are attacked, security companies are offering free help. In a time such as this, cybersecurity companies are all reaching out. TekMonks would like to help as well by offering free POC for LoginCat, a teleworker protection product, to prove we can help keep your business running in the coming 6 to 10 months before there is a vaccine for COVID-19.