#The First Complete Virtual Office

#####By Abby Rose - April 9, 2020

Are we moving into a virtual future that puts an end to offices as we know them? Experts are predicting virtual offices will be the future. Change is necessary in life and the world of technology is no exception. In a world where everything has become virtual and the concept of connecting internationally has become common, companies have to keep up and create impressive online services. Most people have been aware of this but have not had the time, resources, or security protocols in place to transition. 

##Teleworkr
Due to a vicious pandemic, this transition has become a lifeline for companies, and TekMonks would like to lend a helping hand. Unemployment rates are skyrocketing, and we would like to do our part in supporting businesses by offering a free trail for our services while revenue may be low. How can TekMonks help businesses in their time of need? By creating Teleworkr, a user-friendly interface for an office to continue business as usual that is secure, easy to setup, and will keep your employees working in community. Teleworkr is the first complete virtual office software in the market.

Security is not the only concern when moving online, productivity is also a very real issue. Efficient working environments require more, they require accountability, teamwork, incentive, and community. Teleworkr is a unique product because it allows the visibility of not only co-workers who are online, but also whether or not they are working. This is accomplished by sending feedback to the admin about whether or not the keyboard and mouse have been active. In addition, screenshots are taken at random and logging whether or not the application is currently open are features that allow accurate monitoring. 

To best describe this software that was created specifically for the needs of a business, here are some answers we have to many business owners’ main questions and concerns:

###Business Concerns

-     Are my employees actually working from home or just logged in?
-     How many hours did they work? 
-     Can we monitor logins, logouts, screenshots of their work, and if the mouse and keyboard are active while online?
-     Can I setup an office like environment? E.g. the team sees other people from their team come to office and work? Can they see when co-workers leave for day or go eat lunch?
###Employee Concern

-     Can I see, like in the office, my co-workers come in and work? 
-     Am I the only one working? 
-     Can I access all applications I need to do work?
###IT Concerns

-     We Don’t have 2 months to setup a full remote access solution, is the setup easy and remote? 
-     Is it safe and fully secure?
-     Does it have a central portal for MFA login?
-     Is there an administration portal where you can see logs, audits, and control who accesses what?
###Teleworkr meets all these requirements.

All of this combined is needed for a full Virtual Office.

Teleworking requires a full virtual office - like you have a physical office - with the same features, controls and business environment. Teleworkr provides the only such solution in the market today, and it meets business, employee, and IT needs in one complete Teleworking solution.